The South African National Roads Agency SOC Ltd (SANRAL) is investing an estimated R500-million in a road infrastructure project in the Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality.  SANRAL has announced the improvement of the N2 from Green River to Buffalo River Bridge road infrastructure project, with a contract value of R500 million. The announcement was made at an information session held at Bulembu Airport intersection, west of King Williams Town on Friday (29 January). The information session was an opportunity for SANRAL to introduce the project’s main contractor, WBHO, and consultants, supervision engineer Mariswe (Pty) Ltd and design engineer GIBB (Pty) Ltd, to the Eastern Cape MEC for Roads, Transport and Safety the Honourable Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe as well as the Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality. Addressing community member representatives MEC Tikana-Gxothiwe urged them to jealously guard the project and ensure that there are no delays as a result of community feuds. “Our plea to you as the government of the Eastern Cape is for you to look after this project and ensure that there are no delays caused by unnatural causes. “This project is not only going to create job opportunities, but it’s set to improve the quality of life of locals when completed, for generations to come. The fruits of this major investments will be life changing and of great benefit to these communities, for generations,” Tikana-Gxothiwe said. The project is currently in the mobilisation period and construction is expected to start mid-April this year. The project is for the improvement of the N2 national road’s Sections 14 and 15 from Green River to Buffalo River Bridge for a duration of 33 months and entails: “Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality communities are expected to play a vital role in this project as a source of skills and labour," Mbulelo Peterson, SANRAL Southern Region Regional Manager said. The project liaison committee has already been established and inducted. “SMME development, training and community liaison are important for the development of local communities and contractors and for the successful completion of this project” Peterson said.