Tier Flooring, the luxury rigid-core flooring range from innovative international building materials group Eva-Last, has responded to strong market demand for its products by introducing ten new natural colours.  The full range of Tier Flooring products offers increased affordability for those wanting to rejuvenate their living spaces. What makes Tier flooring a highly specialised indoor flooring option is that it’s highly durable and quieter underfoot and provides class-leading water resistance. The expansive range also comes standard with five-year light industrial warranty, 10-year heavy commercial warranty and 30-year heavy domestic warranty. What’s more, Tier flooring has the highest fire resistance rating possible in its class, making it a safer an more reliable choice for your home or office. While natural timber flooring can suffer from disadvantages like scratching in heavy-traffic zones, buckling and warping from liquid spillages and the need for regular maintenance, Tier Flooring – with its CarbideCore  technology – offers a specialised embossed wear layer on its surface to significantly increase durability and scuff resistance while being completely impervious to moisture. With an expanded range of luxury timber finishes, Tier Flooring provides an eco-conscious product that is indistinguishable from real wood in appearance but is simpler, greener, more stable and lasts virtually forever. Tier Flooring is manufactured using solar energy and does not make use of unsustainable natural timber products. Tier Flooring’s core is made from a reliable and rigid stone plastic composite material, which is free from all harmful chemicals such as volatile organic compounds (VOCs), with a print layer providing the aesthetically attractive element and a hard-wearing protective layer on its upward-facing surface. Underneath the CarbideCore is a soft, insulating foam underside which has been treated with an antimicrobial additive which keeps your home or office hygienic, clean and fresh. Nathan Chapman, co-founder of Tier Flooring manufacturer Eva-Last, says Tier Flooring’s numerous benefits over traditional materials make the range more than just functional. “The ability to match various surfaces, tones and finishes throughout a home provides an aesthetic advantage; in addition to no-fail performance, resistance to damage of all kinds and the hygienic properties of Tier Flooring, brings any living space into the modern era.” While Tier Flooring is perfect for all indoor flooring applications, it is also designed to provide an attractive and protective wall covering option – whether in the bathroom, bedroom or entertainment area. Wherever Tier Flooring is applied, it is easy to install through its rapid click-in profile system and creates a flawless finish that is both water and heat-resistant. Each board simply clicks into place alongside the previous panel to create a precise and continuous surface in whatever shape or design is required. Its hard-wearing attributes ensure robust edges which will not wear away against each other or deform over time. Once in place, Tier Flooring is engineered to last and requires no maintenance apart from cleaning and will go on providing the same attractive appearance year after year – now available in a greater range of tasteful natural timber finishes and tones to suit any colour scheme and application. Tier Flooring is readily available through an expanded retail footprint as well as directly from the manufacturer.